--- PAGE 1 ---
MA ViS: A Multi-Agent Framework for Long-Sequence Video Storytelling
Qian Wang
Virginia Tech. University
USA
yqwq1996@vt.edu
Ziqi Huang
Nanyang Technological University
Singapore
ZIQI002@e.ntu.edu.sg
Ruoxi Jia
Virginia Tech. University
USA
ruoxijia@vt.edug
Paul Debevec
Netflix Eyeline Studios
USA
debevec@scanlinevfx.com
Ning Yu*
Netflix Eyeline Studios
USA
ning.yu@scanlinevfx.com
I want a mystery-themed 
video. It tells a story of 
exploring survival, 
following an interstellar 
archaeologist in an alien 
market. The length of 
the final video should be 
about 1 minute.
User
User
I want a courage-themed 
video in a dreamlike 
style. It tells a story of  a 
cursed prince in an 
fantanstic  marketplace. 
The length of the final 
video should be about 1 
minute.
User
User
I want a mystery-themed 
video. It tells a story of 
exploring survival, 
following an interstellar 
archaeologist in an alien 
market. The length of 
the final video should be 
about 1 minute.
User
I want a courage-themed 
video in a dreamlike 
style. It tells a story of  a 
cursed prince in an 
fantanstic  marketplace. 
The length of the final 
video should be about 1 
minute.
User
Figure 1: With just a brief idea description, MA ViS enables users to rapidly explore diverse visual storytelling
and creative directions for sequential video generation by efficiently crafting high-quality, complete long-sequence
videos.
Abstract
Despite recent advances, long-sequence video
generation frameworks still suffer from signifi-
cant limitations: poor assistive capability, sub-
optimal visual quality, and limited expressive-
ness. To mitigate these limitations, we propose
MA ViS, a multi-agent collaborative framework
designed to assist in long-sequence video sto-
rytelling by efficiently translating ideas into
visual narratives. MA ViS orchestrates special-
ized agents across multiple stages, including
script writing, shot designing, character model-
ing, keyframe generation, video animation, and
audio generation.In each stage, agents operate
under the3E Principle—Explore, Examine,
and Enhance—to ensure the completeness of
intermediate outputs. Considering the capabil-
ity limitations of current generative models, we
propose the Script Writing Guidelines to opti-
mize compatibility between scripts and genera-
tive tools. Experimental results demonstrate
that MA ViS achieves state-of-the-art perfor-
mance in assistive capability, visual quality, and
video expressiveness. Its modular framework
further enables scalability with diverse gener-
ative models and tools. With just a brief idea
description, MA ViS enables users to rapidly
explore diverse visual storytelling and creative
directions for sequential video generation by
*Corresponding author and project lead
efficiently crafting high-quality, complete long-
sequence videos. To the best of our knowledge,
MA ViS is the only framework that provides
multimodal design output – videos with narra-
tives and background music.
1 Introduction
In recent years, video generative models (OpenAI,
2024; MiniMax, 2024; GenmoTeam, 2024) have
made substantial strides in text-to-video (T2V)
and image-to-video (I2V) generation. While these
methods demonstrate promising capabilities for
shot-level creation, the generation of long videos
remains a formidable challenge. Besides, the cur-
rent scale of computing and data is insufficient to
train a single end-to-end model capable of crafting
high-quality, minute-long videos.
To overcome this limitation, prior works have
explored extending existing video clips (KlingAI,
2024; Henschel et al., 2024; Ge et al., 2022), or
composing sequences of keyframes (Liu et al.,
2024; Yang et al., 2024b; Rahman et al., 2023;
Wang et al., 2024a), or integrating storytelling and
video generation (Yin et al., 2023b; Zheng et al.,
2025). However, these approaches suffer from
repetitive motion, lack of narrative cohesion, or
result in static image series with limited visual ex-
pressions. To better align narrative planning with
arXiv:2508.08487v4  [cs.CV]  9 Oct 2025
--- PAGE 2 ---
Methods Agentic Script Writing Shot Designing Dynamic ID Consistency Audio Assistive
Mora (Yuan et al., 2024) ✓× ×✓× ×✓
AesopAgent (Wang et al., 2024a) ✓ ✓× ×✓×✓
MovieDreamer (Zhao et al., 2024) × × ×✓ ✓× ×
DreamFactory (Xie et al., 2024) ✓×✓ ✓ ✓× ×
VGoT (Zheng et al., 2025) ×✓×✓ ✓×✓
LCT (Guo et al., 2025) × × ×✓ ✓× ×
MovieAgent (Wu et al., 2025b) ✓×✓ ✓ ✓ ✓×
MA ViS (ours) ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Table 1:Properties of MA ViS vs Other Methods: We summarize seven metrics for long-sequence video storytelling
works."Agentic": whether the system employs a multi-agent architecture; "Script Writing": ability generate scripts
from user prompt; "Shot Designing.": support for structured shot designing and controllable narrative flow;
"Dynamic": whether the generated video exhibits dynamic features; "ID Consistency": consistency in character
identity across multiple shots; "Audio": whether the output includes synchronized audio; "Assistive": whether
the pipeline is designed to support users in script writing, script planning, or model fine-tuning by streamlining
processes.
video animation, MovieDreamer (Zhao et al., 2024)
adopts an auto-regressive approach to generate key
frames from input scripts, while Dreamfactory (Xie
et al., 2024) and MovieAgent (Wu et al., 2025b)
propose a hierarchical script–scene–shot pipeline.
However, as shown in Table 1, these methods re-
quire substantial laborious effort from users for
script writing and training LoRA models to main-
tain ID consistency, which significantly limits their
assistive capability and hinders large-scale deploy-
ment.
In summary, current long-sequence video sto-
rytelling methods face three major limitations: 1)
poor assistive capability, not supporting script writ-
ing, shot designing, and LoRA training to maintain
ID consistency; 2) suboptimal visual quality, mani-
fested in visual distortions, unnatural actions, and
inaccurate object proportions; and 3) limited ex-
pressiveness, often resulting in repetitive actions
and poorly structured shot compositions.
To address this, we introduceMA ViS, a multi-
agent collaborative framework designed to assist
in long-sequence video storytelling by efficiently
translating ideas into visual narratives. MA ViS en-
compasses various stages, including script writ-
ing, shot designing, character modeling, keyframe
generation, video animation, and audio genera-
tion. Given a brief idea description from the user,
the script writing stage first generates a structured
script with character definitions and shot outlines.
The shot designing stage defines a series of shot-
level elements to guide subsequent content gener-
ation, while character modeling ensures ID con-
sistency via LoRA-trained appearances. During
the keyframe generation stage, T2I models are em-
ployed to create the initial static frames for each
shot, i.e., the keyframes, which are then expanded
into full video sequences in the video animation
stage through I2V models, maintaining visual co-
herence and narrative fluency. Finally, voice-overs
and background music (BGM) are added to each
shot during the voice generation stage, resulting in
a cohesive, long-sequence video.
Crucially, all stages operate under the3E Prin-
ciple: -Explore: Initial generation of candidate
outputs; -Examine: Reviewing the quality and
completeness of the output; -Enhance: Iterative
refinement and optimization. After multiple itera-
tions, each stage passes the most complete version
of its output to the next, enabling gradual optimiza-
tion throughout the pipeline.
To mitigate the limitations of current genera-
tive models in maintaining background consis-
tency, executing complex actions, and rendering
fine-grained details, we propose the Script Writ-
ing Guidelines aimed at enhancing the compati-
bility between scripts and generative models, ulti-
mately improving the expressiveness of the video
storytelling. As illustrated in Figure 1, with just
a brief idea description, MA ViS enables users to
rapidly explore diverse visual storytelling and cre-
ative directions for sequential video generation
by efficiently crafting high-quality, complete long-
sequence videos. Furthermore, its modular archi-
tecture ensures scalability with various generative
tools and models.
Our contributions are summarized in three
thrusts:
•We proposeMA ViS, a multi-agent collabora-
tive framework that encompasses various stages
including script writing, shot designing, character
modeling, keyframe generation, video animation,
and audio generation — forming a complete and
scalable workflow for long video storytelling.
• We introduce the3E Principle—Explore,Ex-
amine,Enhance—to continuously optimize the out-
--- PAGE 3 ---
put of each stage. This iterative design ensures the
completeness of the output at each stage.
• We propose the Script Writing Guidelines for
long-sequence video storytelling to enhance the
script-tool compatibility, ultimately improving the
expressiveness of the video storytelling.
• Experiments demonstrate that MA ViS achieves
state-of-the-art performance and wins the most user
preferences in terms of expressiveness and visual
quality. With just a brief idea description from the
user, MA ViS efficiently generates high-quality and
complete long-sequence video storytelling. To the
best of our knowledge, MA ViS is the only frame-
work that provides multimodal design output.
2 Related Works
2.1 Video Generation
Long video generation (He et al., 2022; Ge et al.,
2022; Wang et al., 2024c) aims to produce longer
videos than previous text-to-video (T2V) (Mod-
elScopeTeam, 2023; Wang et al., 2024b) and image-
to-video (I2V) (Girdhar et al., 2023; Xing et al.,
2025; Zhang et al., 2023) models. Auto-regressive
approaches (Weng et al., 2024; Henschel et al.,
2024) and video storytelling methods (Yin et al.,
2023b; Zheng et al., 2025) suffer from repetitive
motions with limited narrative development and
poor visual quality. Meanwhile, commercial mod-
els (KlingAI, 2024; Runway, 2024a,b) support tem-
poral extension. However, the duration of the gen-
erated videos remains constrained. In this work,
MA ViS uses cutting-edge video generation models
to synthesize high-quality video clips and assem-
bles them into long-sequence video storytelling.
2.2 AI Agents
AI agents (Yang et al., 2023a; Yin et al., 2023a; Li
et al., 2023; Hong et al., 2023; Park et al., 2023),
empowered by large language models (Brown et al.,
2020; Touvron et al., 2023a,b), have shown broad
applicability in reasoning, planning, web interac-
tion, and visual generation. In video generation,
systems (Yang et al., 2024a; Yuan et al., 2024;
Wang et al., 2024a) explore world modeling, multi-
agent coordination, and retrieval-augmented syn-
thesis, yet often yield static content with limited
transitions. Hierarchical pipelines (Xie et al., 2024;
Wu et al., 2025b) introduce script-to-shot work-
flows but still rely on laborious scripting and LoRA
tuning. In contrast, our MA ViS leverages multi-
agent collaboration to enable long-sequence video
storytelling.
3 MA ViS
We proposeMA ViS, a multi-agent collaborative
framework for long-sequence video storytelling
that consists of various stages, including script writ-
ing, shot designing, character modeling, keyframe
generation, video animation, and audio generation.
Given a user prompt P , as illustrated in Figure 2
MA ViS aims to generate a long-sequence video
storytelling that comprisesNshots:
F:P→ ˆV, ˆV={{V j, A j} |j= 1,2, . . . , N},(1)
where ˆVj is the video clip and ˆAj is the audio track.
To ensure the completeness and reliability of the
generation pipeline, agents in each stage follow
a unified3E Principle:Explore,Examine, and
Enhance. Section 3.1 details the 3E principle, and
Section 3.2 outlines the Script Writing Guidelines,
followed by Section 3.3 to 3.6 introducing the agent
design and working procedures of each stage.
3.1 3E Principle
Existing frameworks for long-sequence video story-
telling adopt one-shot generation strategies. How-
ever, such approaches often prove inadequate in
practice—scripts may not align with user intent,
images or videos can exhibit distortions or unnat-
ural actions, and audio tracks may be misaligned
in duration. These issues highlight the necessity
of adopting a multi-round generation–modification
loop, rather than relying on one-shot generation.
To address this, we introduce the3E Princi-
ple—Explore, Examine, Enhance—to guide intra-
stage agents’ collaboration and progressively im-
prove generation quality across iterations:
Explore: This stage represents the first attempt
to generate content based on the current request
and specification:
r1 =G(p 1;g),(2)
where p1 denotes the initial generation request, g is
the generation guidelines, such as guides of script-
tool compatibility and output completeness. G is
the generator, andr 1 is the resulting output.
Examine: The generated output is then examined
to determine whether it satisfies the specification:
f1 =E(r 1, g),(3)
where E is the reviewer, and f1 is the examination
feedback of resultr 1 based on the guidelinesg.
--- PAGE 4 ---
3E3E 3E3E
3E3E
3E3E
Shot Designing Stage
Shot 
Reviewer
Shot 
Reviewer
Shot DesignerShot Designer
Shot 1
Character:  Ethan
Background:  The marketplace 
is teeming with vibrant stalls 
and alien vendors. An 
enormous crystal hangs 
overhead... 
Character Pose:  Ethan walks 
purposefully...
Character Action:  Ethan 
scans the surrounding…
Prop Description:  None
Camera Position:  Medium 
shot, slightly elevated...
Camera Movement:  Static.
Lighting Design:  Artificial 
multicolored light from the 
crystal above...
Shot 2
Character:  None
Background:  The artifact is 
placed on a polished wooden 
stall...
Character Pose:  None
Character Action:  None
Prop Description:  A small, 
spherical artifact with 
intricate...
Camera Pose:  Close-up shot, 
front view centering on the 
artifact...
Camera Movement:  Slight 
zoom in...
Lighting Design:  Soft spot 
lighting highlights the glowing 
inscriptions....
•••
I2V Model Pool
I2V Model Pool
Script Writing Stage
Structure 
Reviewer
Structure 
Reviewer
Content 
Reviewer
Content 
Reviewer
Style 
Reviewer
Style 
Reviewer
Title:  Echoes in the Alien Bazaar  
Genre:  Sci-Fi Adventure  
Style:  Visually rich and character-driven 
narrative with a strong sense of mystery 
and adventure.
Character Profile:
Elias Morgan:  Around 30 years old, 
Caucasian, with short, wavy blond hair 
and fair skin...
Shot 1:  
Character:  Ethan 
Content:  Ethan walks through a bustling 
alien marketplace filled with colorful 
stalls, under the artificial light of an 
enormous hanging crystal. He Is scanning 
the myriad artifacts displayed around him.  
Subtitle/Voice-over:  In this alien sea of 
trinkets and echoes, survival meant 
unraveling the past.
Shot 2: 
Character:  None  
Content:  Close-up of a mysterious artifact 
resting on a stall, a small, intricate sphere 
with glowing inscriptions. 
Subtitle/Voice-over:  Each artifact held 
whispered secrets... pieces of a forgotten 
puzzle.
3E3E
3E Principle
3E
3E Principle
ScriptwriterScriptwriter
Audio Generation Stage
BGM: Dark Fog
Shot 1: 
Voice ID:  Deep_Voice_Man
Emotion:  Neutral
Voice-over:   In this alien sea 
of trinkets and echoes...  
Shot 2: 
Voice ID:  Deep_Voice_Man
Emotion:  Neutral
Voice-over:   Each artifact 
held whispered secrets...
...Voice  
Reviewer
Voice  
Reviewer
Subtitle 
Refiner
Subtitle 
Refiner
Voice 
Designer
Voice 
Designer
T2A 
Model
T2A 
Model
 AudiosAudiosAudios
Output Long-
Sequence Video
Output Long-
Sequence Video
Character Video
Character Video
Character Image
Character Image
Character Modeling Stage
T2I Prompt, Ethan:  A 30-year-
old Caucasian man with short, 
wavy blond hair and fair skin, 
wearing a dusty red leather jacket 
and cargo pants... 
I2V Prompt, Ethan:  Begin with 
Ethan standing in a surreal alien 
realm, the background featuring 
twilight colors. The camera 
rotates around him...
T2I Process
I2V Process
• A photo of Ethan 
standing in a 
rugged landscape 
with towering rock 
formations...
• A photo of Ethan 
standing in a 
dramatic landscape 
....
Sample
Caption 
Generator
Caption 
Generator
Train
Character Prompt GeneratorCharacter Prompt Generator
LoRA
LoRA
Multi-View 
Character Images
• • •
 • • •
Multi-View 
Character Images
• • •
3E3E
Keyframe Generation Stage
Shot 1:  Ethan walks 
purposefully through a 
bustling alien 
marketplace under a...
Shot 2:  A small 
intricate spherical 
artifact with subtly 
shifting glowing...
...
T2I Process
T2I Model Pool
T2I 
Prompt 
Generator
T2I 
Prompt 
Generator
T2I RefinerT2I Refiner T2I EvaluatorT2I Evaluator
•••
•••
Key Frames
•••
Key Frames
3E3E
•••
•••
Video Clips
•••
Video Clips
Video Animation Stage
Shot 1:  A man around 30 
with short wavy blond 
hair, fair skin, and a dusty 
red leather jacket walks...
Shot 2: A small, intricate 
spherical artifact with 
glowing inscriptions that 
subtly shift rests on a...
...
I2V Process
I2V 
Prompt 
Generator
I2V 
Prompt 
Generator
I2V Model Pool
I2V RefinerI2V Refiner I2V EvaluatorI2V Evaluator
3E
•••
Video Clips
Video Animation Stage
Shot 1:  A man around 30 
with short wavy blond 
hair, fair skin, and a dusty 
red leather jacket walks...
Shot 2: A small, intricate 
spherical artifact with 
glowing inscriptions that 
subtly shift rests on a...
...
I2V Process
I2V 
Prompt 
Generator
I2V Model Pool
I2V Refiner I2V Evaluator
T2I Model Pool
LoRA
LoRA
T2I Model Pool
LoRA
I want a mystery-themed video. It tells a story of exploring survival, following an interstellar 
archaeologist in an alien market. The length of the final video should be at least 1 minute.
User
User
I want a mystery-themed video. It tells a story of exploring survival, following an interstellar 
archaeologist in an alien market. The length of the final video should be at least 1 minute.
User
3E 3E
3E
3E
Shot Designing Stage
Shot 
Reviewer
Shot Designer
Shot 1
Character:  Ethan
Background:  The marketplace 
is teeming with vibrant stalls 
and alien vendors. An 
enormous crystal hangs 
overhead... 
Character Pose:  Ethan walks 
purposefully...
Character Action:  Ethan 
scans the surrounding…
Prop Description:  None
Camera Position:  Medium 
shot, slightly elevated...
Camera Movement:  Static.
Lighting Design:  Artificial 
multicolored light from the 
crystal above...
Shot 2
Character:  None
Background:  The artifact is 
placed on a polished wooden 
stall...
Character Pose:  None
Character Action:  None
Prop Description:  A small, 
spherical artifact with 
intricate...
Camera Pose:  Close-up shot, 
front view centering on the 
artifact...
Camera Movement:  Slight 
zoom in...
Lighting Design:  Soft spot 
lighting highlights the glowing 
inscriptions....
•••
I2V Model Pool
Script Writing Stage
Structure 
Reviewer
Content 
Reviewer
Style 
Reviewer
Title:  Echoes in the Alien Bazaar  
Genre:  Sci-Fi Adventure  
Style:  Visually rich and character-driven 
narrative with a strong sense of mystery 
and adventure.
Character Profile:
Elias Morgan:  Around 30 years old, 
Caucasian, with short, wavy blond hair 
and fair skin...
Shot 1:  
Character:  Ethan 
Content:  Ethan walks through a bustling 
alien marketplace filled with colorful 
stalls, under the artificial light of an 
enormous hanging crystal. He Is scanning 
the myriad artifacts displayed around him.  
Subtitle/Voice-over:  In this alien sea of 
trinkets and echoes, survival meant 
unraveling the past.
Shot 2: 
Character:  None  
Content:  Close-up of a mysterious artifact 
resting on a stall, a small, intricate sphere 
with glowing inscriptions. 
Subtitle/Voice-over:  Each artifact held 
whispered secrets... pieces of a forgotten 
puzzle.
3E
3E Principle
Scriptwriter
Audio Generation Stage
BGM: Dark Fog
Shot 1: 
Voice ID:  Deep_Voice_Man
Emotion:  Neutral
Voice-over:   In this alien sea 
of trinkets and echoes...  
Shot 2: 
Voice ID:  Deep_Voice_Man
Emotion:  Neutral
Voice-over:   Each artifact 
held whispered secrets...
...Voice  
Reviewer
Subtitle 
Refiner
Voice 
Designer
T2A 
Model
 Audios
Output Long-
Sequence Video
Character Video
Character Image
Character Modeling Stage
T2I Prompt, Ethan:  A 30-year-
old Caucasian man with short, 
wavy blond hair and fair skin, 
wearing a dusty red leather jacket 
and cargo pants... 
I2V Prompt, Ethan:  Begin with 
Ethan standing in a surreal alien 
realm, the background featuring 
twilight colors. The camera 
rotates around him...
T2I Process
I2V Process
• A photo of Ethan 
standing in a 
rugged landscape 
with towering rock 
formations...
• A photo of Ethan 
standing in a 
dramatic landscape 
....
Sample
Caption 
Generator
Train
Character Prompt Generator
LoRA
Multi-View 
Character Images
• • •
3E
Keyframe Generation Stage
Shot 1:  Ethan walks 
purposefully through a 
bustling alien 
marketplace under a...
Shot 2:  A small 
intricate spherical 
artifact with subtly 
shifting glowing...
...
T2I Process
T2I Model Pool
T2I 
Prompt 
Generator
T2I Refiner T2I Evaluator
•••
Key Frames
3E
•••
Video Clips
Video Animation Stage
Shot 1:  A man around 30 
with short wavy blond 
hair, fair skin, and a dusty 
red leather jacket walks...
Shot 2: A small, intricate 
spherical artifact with 
glowing inscriptions that 
subtly shift rests on a...
...
I2V Process
I2V 
Prompt 
Generator
I2V Model Pool
I2V Refiner I2V Evaluator
T2I Model Pool
LoRA
I want a mystery-themed video. It tells a story of exploring survival, following an interstellar 
archaeologist in an alien market. The length of the final video should be at least 1 minute.
User
Figure 2: Illustration of MA ViS framework.
Enhance: Based on the feedback and guidelines,
the request is refined to improve quality in the next
iteration:
pi+1 =R(p i;f i, g),(4)
where R denotes the refiner, andpi+1 is the updated
request for iteration i+ 1 . This new request serves
as the input to the next round of Explore-Examine-
Enhance, and the process continues iteratively until
the output fully satisfies the specification.
After multiple Explore-Examine-Enhance itera-
tions, each stage passes the most complete version
of its output to the next, enabling gradual optimiza-
tion throughout the pipeline. Given the limitations
of individual agents, it may need to deploy mul-
tiple reviewers in parallel to ensure comprehen-
sive assessment. Additionally, generating multiple
candidates per iteration and enhancing the highest-
scoring one can effectively reduce the total number
of required iterations. Moreover, depending on the
design, the generator and refiner may be imple-
mented as a unified component.
3.2 Script Writing Guidelines
Given the limitations of current generative models
in maintaining background consistency, executing
complex actions, and rendering fine-grained details,
certain scripts remain infeasible for video gener-
ation. To address this gap and improve the com-
patibility between scripts and generative models,
we propose the Script Writing Guidelines for long-
sequence storytelling. The Script Writing Guide-
lines comprises three components: the Structure
Guide, which focuses on how scenes and shots are
segmented and arranged; the Content Guide, which
defines how much content a single shot should in-
clude; and the Style Guide, which ensures user-
centric alignment, coherent pacing, logical flow,
and structural completeness. Together, these guide-
lines constrain agent-based script writing and im-
prove the expressiveness of the ultimate video sto-
rytelling.
Structure GuideCurrent video generation mod-
els have limited contextual modeling capacity; as a
result, adjacent shots set within the same spatial en-
vironment often suffer from inconsistency in back-
ground elements. Therefore, scriptwriters should
avoid placing successive shots in the same back-
ground and should minimize transitions between
tightly connected spatial locations (e.g., from "out-
side the door" to "inside the room," or from one
room to another). Moreover, to reduce the jarring
effect of spatial jumps, it is recommended not to
place the same character in consecutive shots un-
less narrative necessity dictates it.
To mitigate these issues while preserving narra-
tive flow, transitional shots can be inserted. These
may include close-ups of different characters, par-
tial views of a character (e.g., hands, back), de-
tailed shots of the environment, or important props.
Such insertions help avoid background duplication
while reinforcing the spatial or character continuity.
Additionally, enhanced descriptions of both back-
--- PAGE 5 ---
ground and character appearance are encouraged to
improve model alignment with visual and narrative
consistency.
Content GuideCurrent video generation models
struggle to synthesize multiple sequential actions
within a single shot (e.g., running followed by walk-
ing and then dancing). Therefore, it is advisable
to limit each shot to a single, simple action. Fur-
thermore, generative models often fail to craft fine-
grained visual elements accurately, such as textual
content on smartphone screens or small patterns
on objects. Scripts should avoid specifying such
details.
Style GuideWithin the Structure Guide and the
Content Guide, a script may risk becoming frag-
mented or visually monotonous if not properly
orchestrated. The style guide thus ensures har-
monious pacing, visual diversity, and narrative
logic. Moreover, the script’s tone and theme must
align with the user’s request, and different gen-
res require distinct narrative pacing—emotional
and family-oriented scripts benefit from a slow,
layered progression, while action-oriented scripts
demand rapid and dynamic developments. Addi-
tionally, structural completeness is essential: every
script must contain a title, character definitions,
and a shot-by-shot script. Each shot should specify
the character (or "None" if absent), shot content,
and accompanying subtitle or voice-over. Subtitles
must align semantically with the shot content.
3.3 Script Writing Stage
Upon receiving a brief user prompt, four
agents—the Scriptwriter, the Structure Reviewer,
the Content Reviewer, and the Style Re-
viewer—work collaboratively in the script writing
stage to form a structured script.
The Scriptwriter Gscr first generate a draft script
S1 based on the user prompt P and the Script Writ-
ing Guidelinesg scr:
S1 =G scr(P, gscr).(5)
Following the 3E principle, at each iteration, the
Structure Reviewer Estr, Content Reviewer Econ,
and Style Reviewer Esty examine the script Si
against the Structure Guide gstr, Content Guide
gcon and Style Guide gsty respectively, and provide
feedback:
f i
scr = [E str(Si, gstr), E con(Si, gcon), E sty(Si, gsty)],(6)
where gscr = [g str, g con, g sty]. The Scriptwriter
integrates these feedback to improve the script iter-
atively:
Si+1 =G scr(f i
scr;S i, gscr)(7)
The Explore-Examine-Enhance loop continues
until all reviewers reach a consensus that the script
fully satisfies the guidelines after n iterations, and
the Scriptwriter outputs the finalized version, rep-
resented asS=C scr(Sn).
3.4 Shot Designing Stage
In the shot-designing stage, the Shot De-
signer—responsible for generating detailed shot
designs—and the Shot Reviewer—tasked with as-
sessing the completeness and adherence of shot de-
signs to predefined guidelines—play pivotal roles
in transforming the high-level script into detailed
shot elements suitable for downstream image and
video generation. In detail, each shot is enriched
with seven essential elements to enable precise vi-
sual control:
• Background: Specifies the spatial and environ-
mental context of the shot, including location, time
of day, season, weather conditions, and foreground-
background composition.
• Character Pose: Describes the initial static
state of characters, including posture, expression,
and position when the shot begins.
• Character Action: Captures dynamic interac-
tions or movements of characters throughout the
shot.
• Prop Description: Defines non-character ob-
jects, including their form, texture, behavior, and
placement.
• Camera Position: Specifies the camera’s initial
angle, orientation, and distance from the scene.
• Camera Movement: Describes the movement
mode and direction of the camera during the shot.
• Lighting Design: Defines lighting characteris-
tics such as type, tone, brightness, and color tem-
perature to convey atmosphere.
Similarly, following the 3E Principle, the Shot
Designer generates an initial shot design from the
script:
ˆS1 =G shot(S),(8)
where the shot designing guide provides essential
constraints to ensure completeness and stylistic
alignment with the original script.
In each iteration i, the Shot Reviewer examines
the completeness and appropriateness of the current
design ˆSi and provides feedback:
f i
shot =E shot( ˆSi).(9)
--- PAGE 6 ---
The Shot Designer then uses this feedback to en-
hance the design, until the Shot Reviewer deems
the result satisfactory:
ˆSi+1 =G shot(f i
shot; ˆSi), ˆS= ˆSn.(10)
3.5 Character Modeling Stage
To ensure the ID consistency of characters across
shots, in the character modeling stage, agents con-
struct visual representations for each character and
train a LoRA model. This process incorporates the
Character Prompt Generator and Caption Genera-
tor, supported by reviewer agents for both image
generation (T2I Evaluator and T2I Refiner) and
video animation (I2V Evaluator and I2V Refiner).
The process begins with the Character Prompt
Generator, which generates both text-to-image
(T2I) and image-to-video (I2V) prompts for each
character. T2I prompts aim to generate a frontal
and naturally posed character image, while I2V
prompts are used—together with the T2I im-
ages—to synthesize character-centric video clips
that capture the subject from multiple angles. After
both T2I and I2V processes, multi-view character
images are sampled from the generated character
video. The Caption Generator then generates struc-
tured captions for each sampled frame. These im-
ages and captions are subsequently used to train
LoRA models (if needed).
Both the T2I and I2V processes follow the 3E
Principle, but differ from script writing and shot
designing in that each iteration generates multiple
samples from the generative model pools. Specifi-
cally, in the i-th iteration, a set of candidate images
is generated by the pool of T2I models MI using
the current T2I promptp i
I:
Ii ={G k
I (pi
I ), G k
I ∈ M I , k= 1,2, . . . ,|M I |}.(11)
T2I Evaluator EI scores candidates according to
the image evaluation guide gI, selects the best one
Ii, and provides evaluation resultf i
I:
[Ii, f i
I ] =E I (Ii, gI )(12)
The T2I Refiner RI then updates the prompt ac-
cordingly:
pi+1
I =R I (f i
I , pi
I )(13)
After n iterations, the final image I=I n initiates
the I2V process.
The I2V process mirrors the T2I process. First,
a set of candidate videos is generated by the I2V
model poolMI:
Vi ={G k
V (I, pi
V ), G k
V ∈ M I , k= 1,2, . . . ,|M V |}.
(14)
The I2V Evaluator EV evaluates these candidates
according to the video evaluation guide gI, selects
the best one Vi, and provides evaluation result f i
V .
The I2V Refiner RV updates the I2V prompt and
generates the final videoV n afterniterations:
[Vi, f i
V ] =E V (Vi, gV ), p i+1
V =R V (f i
V , pi
I ), V=V n.
(15)
The difference is that the I2V process incorpo-
rates additional evaluation complexity. The image
evaluation guide assesses candidates based on three
primary axes: 1)Visual Quality: clarity, detail res-
olution, and aesthetic harmony; 2)Naturalness:
identifying distortions, anatomical inaccuracies, or
proportion inconsistencies; and 3)Prompt Consis-
tency: if the image content aligns with the input
prompt. In contrast, the video evaluation guide
extends these criteria by introducing: 1)Subject
Consistency: temporal stability in facial features,
attire, hairstyle, and skin tone across frames; and 2)
Dynamics: the richness, fluidity, and pacing of char-
acter movement throughout the clip. Together, the
image and video evaluation guides work in concert
to enforce the completeness of the final generation.
3.6 Generation Stages
The generation stages include: 1) the keyframe
generation stage, which comprises the T2I Prompt
Generator, T2I Evaluator, and T2I Refiner, respon-
sible for generating the initial reference image for
each shot; 2) the video animation stage, which
includes the I2V Prompt Generator, I2V Evalua-
tor, and I2V Refiner, and completes the video shot
based on the keyframes; and 3) the audio genera-
tion stage, which consists of the V oice Designer,
V oice Reviewer, and Subtitle Refiner, synthesizes
voice-overs and background music aligned with the
emotional rhythm of each shot.
First, in the keyframe generation stage,
the T2I Prompt Generator uses shot-level ele-
ments—Character,Background,Character Pose,
Prop Description,Camera Position, andLighting
Design—to construct T2I prompts, which are re-
fined via the same T2I process in Section 3.5, uti-
lizing the T2I model pool and the trained LoRA
model, resulting in a set of keyframes {Ij |j=
1,2, . . . , N}.
Second, in the video animation stage, the I2V
Prompt Generator formulates I2V prompts using
Character,Background,Character Action,Prop
Description,Camera Movement, andLighting De-
sign. Again, following the same I2V process in-
--- PAGE 7 ---
Method Keyframe Generation Video Animation
CLIP↑Inception↑ T. Flick.↑M. Smooth.↑Sub. Cons.↑Bg. Cons.↑Aesthetic↑I. Quality↑
VGoT (Zheng et al., 2025) 22.37 8.53 99.00 99.3198.94 98.74 80.1164.59
Mora (Yuan et al., 2024) 33.98 12.68 97.32 99.23 95.23 94.88 64.36 71.48
MovieAgent (Wu et al., 2025b) 31.71 10.72 97.07 99.20 93.29 94.51 63.39 71.26
MA ViS (ours) 34.22 12.81 99.09 99.5395.72 96.12 63.1772.91
Table 2:Evaluation of Automatic Metrics for Keyframe Generation and Video Animation."T. Flick.", "M.
Smooth.", "Sub. Cons.", "Bg. Cons.", "Aesthetic", and "I. Quality" refer to "Temporal Flickering", "Motion
Smoothness", "Subject Consistency", "Background Consistency", ‘Aesthetic Quality’, and "Imaging Quality" from
metrics in VBench (Huang et al., 2024), respectively. ↑ indicates a higher value is more desired.Boldindicates the
best results.
Method Narrative↑Visual↑User Align.↑Sub. Cons.↑Sub. Natural.↑Bg. Cons.↑Bg. Real.↑
VGoT (Zheng et al., 2025) 3.39 3.39 6.79 5.56 3.07 4.14 3.24
Mora (Yuan et al., 2024) 15.18 16.96 13.57 15.77 13.00 13.69 15.29
MovieAgent (Wu et al., 2025b) 9.46 11.79 11.96 12.37 12.27 12.07 10.97
MA ViS (ours) 71.96 67.86 67.68 66.31 71.66 70.09 70.50
Table 3:User Study on the Performance of Long-Sequence Video Storytelling(V oting Results). "Narrative",
"Visual", "User Align.", "Sub. Cons.", "Sub. Natural.", "Bg. Cons.", and "Bg. Real." refer to "Narrative
Expressiveness", "Visual Quality", "User Prompt Alignment", "Subject Consistency", "Character Naturalness",
"Background Consistency", and "Background Realism", respectively. ↑ indicates a higher value is more desired.
Boldindicates the best results.
troduced in Section 3.5, these prompts are used to
generate video clips{V j |j= 1,2, . . . , N}.
After video animation, voice and music planning
are initiated in the audio generation stage based
on the 3E principle. The V oice Designer GA se-
lects background music for the entire script and
configures voice IDs and emotional tones for each
individual shot. The voice design is then reviewed
by the V oice ReviewerEA, who checks for com-
pliance (e.g., music availability and voice–emotion
appropriateness) and provides iterative feedback
f i
A to assist in refinement:
S1
A =G A(S), f i
A =E A(Si
A), S i+1
A =G A(S, f i
A),
SA =S n
A.(16)
Next, the T2A modelGA generates speech audio
for each shot. The Subtitle Refiner RA shortens the
voice-over pA to fit temporal constraints, ensuring
compatibility with video animation:
Ai
j =G A(pi
A,j), p i+1
A,j =R A(pi
A,j;A i
j, Vj), A j =A n
j .
(17)
Finally, audio tracks are synchronized with
video clips to form the final long-sequence video
telling with synchronized visuals and sound: ˆV=
{{Vj, A j} |j= 1,2, . . . , N}.
4 Experiment
To evaluate the effectiveness of MA ViS, we bench-
mark it against three three long video generation
baselines: VGoT, Mora, and MovieAgent, and con-
duct detailed ablation studies. We constructed a test
set of 20 user prompts, each targeting a one-minute
video for evaluation. We employ CLIP, Inception
Score, and VBench (Huang et al., 2024) for quan-
titative evaluation, and conduct a user study for
subjective assessment. Further experimental set-
tings, metrics, and baseline details are provided in
the Appendix.
4.1 Performance Comparisons
We evaluate each method via automatic metrics
and user study. It’s worth noting that MA ViS is the
only framework that provides multimodal output –
videos with narratives and BGM.
4.1.1 Automatic Metrics
Table 2 presents the shot-level evaluation results
for both keyframe generation and video animation.
MA ViS achieves the highest scores in CLIP (4.22)
and Inception (12.81) scores, attributed to the en-
hanced T2I quality enabled by the 3E Principle
in the T2I process. In video animation, MA ViS
slightly lags behind VGoT in subject consistency
and background consistency but outperforms all
baselines in temporal flickering, motion smooth-
ness, and image quality. This is partly because
VGoT crafts videos with limited dynamics and
highly saturated visuals, which improves intra-shot
consistency and aesthetic quality but at the cost of
realism. Overall, MA ViS achieves the best compre-
hensive performance.
4.1.2 User Study
Table 3 summarizes the voting results from 60
evaluators across multiple aspects of comparison
among the baselines. MA ViS consistently outper-
forms all other methods in every evaluation dimen-
sion, with an average voting share of69.44%. This
highlights both the effectiveness of our architecture
and the critical role of the 3E Principle.
--- PAGE 8 ---
Ablation Narrative↑Visual↑User Align.↑
w/oE str 13.67 25.67 26.67
w/oE con 32.33 18.67 26.67
w/oE sty 20.00 26.67 20.00
MA ViS (ours) 34.00 26.00 26.67
Table 4:Ablation study on the Structure Reviewer
Estr, the Content Reviewer Econ, and the Style Re-
viewer Esty. ↑ indicates a higher value is more desired.
Gray-shaded cells indicate values that are significantly
lower than the others.
Ablation CLIP↑Inception↑Natural.↑ Sub. Cons.↑Dyn. Deg.↑
T2I w/o 3E 31.25 10.54 72.00 - -
w 3E 34.22 12.81 98.00 - -
I2V w/o 3E 32.05 11.22 60.00 3.0 44.58
w 3E 34.53 13.22 92.50 95.72 35.62
Table 5:Ablation study of the 3E Principle in the T2I
and I2V Processes. "Natural." refers to the Natural-
ness score, ↑ indicates a higher value is more desired.
Gray-shaded cells indicate values that are significantly
lower.
4.2 Ablation Study
We conduct an ablation study to demonstrate the
impact of the 3E Principle across different modules
of the framework.
4.2.1 Script Writing Guidelines
In the script writing stage, based on the Script Writ-
ing Guidelines, the Structure Reviewer focuses on
how scenes and shots are segmented and arranged,
the Content Reviewer ensures that each shot can
fully convey its intended content, and the Style Re-
viewer oversees global pacing, logical flow, struc-
tural coherence, and alignment with user require-
ments. Table 4 presents the effects of removing
each reviewer from the pipeline. As shown, exclud-
ing the Structure Reviewer significantly impairs
narrative expressiveness, removing the Content Re-
viewer degrades visual quality, and omitting the
Style Reviewer leads to a loss in both narrative
alignment and consistency with user intent. Op-
timal script generation is achieved only when all
three reviewers collaborate.
4.2.2 3E Principle in T2I and I2V Processes
Since the evaluators and refiners in both the T2I
and I2V processes cannot operate independently,
we conduct an ablation study to evaluate the over-
all impact of the 3E Principle on these modules.
The CLIP score, Inception score, Naturalness score
(defined as the proportion of generated images or
videos that appear physically plausible and nat-
urally rendered), along with Subject Consistency
and Dynamic Degree from the VBench metrics, are
used to assess key aspects targeted by the T2I and
I2V Evaluators—specifically, prompt consistency,
Ablation C. Rate↑ Ablation C. Rate↑ Ablation C. Rate↑
w/oE shot 84.5 w/oE A 92.0 w/oR A 56.5
wE shot 100.0 w/oE A 100.0 w/oR A 100.0
Table 6:Ablation study on the Shot Reviewer Eshot,
the Voice Reviewer EA, and the Subtitle Refiner RA.
"C. Rate" refers to "Compliance Rate". ↑ indicates a
higher value is more desired. Gray-shaded cells indi-
cate values that are significantly lower.
visual quality, naturalness, subject consistency, and
dynamics. As shown in Table 5, removing the
3E Principle leads to a noticeable drop in perfor-
mance across both T2I and I2V outputs, particu-
larly in terms of naturalness (72.0→98.0 in T2I
and 60.0→92.5 in I2V). This highlights the criti-
cal role of the 3E Principle in improving generation
quality. An exception is observed in the I2V pro-
cess: the Dynamic Degree is higher without the 3E
Principle (44.58>35.63 ). This may be because
high-dynamic videos are more prone to physical
inconsistencies and instability, leading the agents
to favor lower-dynamic, more stable results.
4.2.3 Shot Reviewer, Voice Reviewer, and
Subtitle Refiner
As related, the Shot Reviewer assesses the com-
pleteness of the shot designs, the V oice Reviewer
ensures the music availability and voice-emotion
appropriateness of voice design, and the Subti-
tle Refiner shortens voice-over to match the du-
ration limits of video clips. We use Compliance
Rate—defined as the proportion of outputs that
fully adhere to their respective guidelines—to eval-
uate the contributions of these agents. As shown
in Table 6, removing these agents leads to a no-
ticeable drop in compliance, particularly in voice-
over generation, which in turn negatively impacts
downstream content generation. These results un-
derscore the necessity of the 3E Principle in shot
designing, voice designing, and the speech audio
generation.
5 Conclution
In this work, we presentedMA ViS, a multi-agent
collaborative framework designed to assist in long-
sequence video storytelling. By orchestrating mul-
tiple stages within a unified pipeline, MA ViS ef-
fectively addresses the key limitations of prior ap-
proaches — poor assistive capability, limited visual
expressiveness, and incomplete outputs. Central to
our framework is the 3E Principle (Explore, Exam-
ine, Enhance), which enables iterative refinement
across all stages, maximizing output quality. Ad-
--- PAGE 9 ---
ditionally, our proposed Script Writing Guidelines
improve compatibility between narrative structure
and generative tools. Experimental results validate
that MA ViS significantly advances the assistive ca-
pability, visual quality, and expressiveness of long-
sequence video storytelling.
References
Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama
Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni Aleman,
Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman,
Shyamal Anadkat, and 1 others. 2023. Gpt-4 techni-
cal report.arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774.
Wang Ang and Ai et al. Baole. 2025. Wan: Open and
advanced large-scale video generative models.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2503.20314.
Rohan Anil, Sebastian Borgeaud, Yonghui Wu, Jean-
Baptiste Alayrac, Jiahui Yu, Radu Soricut, Johan
Schalkwyk, Andrew M Dai, Anja Hauth, Katie Mil-
lican, and 1 others. 2023. Gemini: A family of
highly capable multimodal models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2312.11805, 1.
BlackForestLabs. 2023. Flux. https://github.com/
black-forest-labs/flux.
Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie
Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind
Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda
Askell, and 1 others. 2020. Language models are
few-shot learners.Advances in neural information
processing systems, 33:1877–1901.
Siyu Cao, Hangting Chen, Peng Chen, Yiji Cheng, Yu-
tao Cui, Xinchi Deng, Ying Dong, Kipper Gong,
Tianpeng Gu, Xiusen Gu, and 1 others. 2025. Hun-
yuanimage 3.0 technical report.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2509.23951.
Rinon Gal, Yuval Alaluf, Yuval Atzmon, Or Patashnik,
Amit H Bermano, Gal Chechik, and Daniel Cohen-
Or. 2022. An image is worth one word: Personaliz-
ing text-to-image generation using textual inversion.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2208.01618.
Songwei Ge, Thomas Hayes, Harry Yang, Xi Yin, Guan
Pang, David Jacobs, Jia-Bin Huang, and Devi Parikh.
2022. Long video generation with time-agnostic vq-
gan and time-sensitive transformer. InEuropean
Conference on Computer Vision, pages 102–118.
Springer.
GenmoTeam. 2024. Mochi 1. https://github.com/
genmoai/models.
Rohit Girdhar, Mannat Singh, Andrew Brown, Quentin
Duval, Samaneh Azadi, Sai Saketh Rambhatla, Ak-
bar Shah, Xi Yin, Devi Parikh, and Ishan Misra.
2023. Emu video: Factorizing text-to-video genera-
tion by explicit image conditioning.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2311.10709.
DeepMind Google. 2024. Veo-2.
DeepMind Google. 2025. Introducing gemini 2.5 flash
image, our state-of-the-art image model.
Yuwei Guo, Ceyuan Yang, Ziyan Yang, Zhibei Ma, Zhi-
jie Lin, Zhenheng Yang, Dahua Lin, and Lu Jiang.
2025. Long context tuning for video generation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.10589.
Tiankai Hang, Shuyang Gu, Dong Chen, Xin Geng,
and Baining Guo. 2024. Cca: Collaborative com-
petitive agents for image editing.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2401.13011.
Yingqing He, Tianyu Yang, Yong Zhang, Ying Shan,
and Qifeng Chen. 2022. Latent video diffusion mod-
els for high-fidelity long video generation.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2211.13221.
Roberto Henschel, Levon Khachatryan, Daniil
Hayrapetyan, Hayk Poghosyan, Vahram Tade-
vosyan, Zhangyang Wang, Shant Navasardyan, and
Humphrey Shi. 2024. Streamingt2v: Consistent,
dynamic, and extendable long video generation from
text.arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.14773.
Sirui Hong, Xiawu Zheng, Jonathan Chen, Yuheng
Cheng, Jinlin Wang, Ceyao Zhang, Zili Wang, Steven
Ka Shing Yau, Zijuan Lin, Liyang Zhou, and 1
others. 2023. Metagpt: Meta programming for
multi-agent collaborative framework.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2308.00352.
Ziqi Huang, Yinan He, Jiashuo Yu, Fan Zhang,
Chenyang Si, Yuming Jiang, Yuanhan Zhang, Tianx-
ing Wu, Qingyang Jin, Nattapol Chanpaisit, Yao-
hui Wang, Xinyuan Chen, Limin Wang, Dahua Lin,
Yu Qiao, and Ziwei Liu. 2024. VBench: Comprehen-
sive benchmark suite for video generative models. In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Com-
puter Vision and Pattern Recognition.
Sangwon Jang, Jaehyeong Jo, Kimin Lee, and Sung Ju
Hwang. 2024. Identity decoupling for multi-subject
personalization of text-to-image models. InThe
Thirty-eighth Annual Conference on Neural Infor-
mation Processing Systems.
KlingAI. 2024. Kling-v1.5.
Weijie Kong, Qi Tian, Zijian Zhang, Rox Min, Zuozhuo
Dai, Jin Zhou, Jiangfeng Xiong, Xin Li, Bo Wu,
Jianwei Zhang, and 1 others. 2024. Hunyuanvideo:
A systematic framework for large video generative
models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.03603.
Guohao Li, Hasan Hammoud, Hani Itani, Dmitrii
Khizbullin, and Bernard Ghanem. 2023. Camel:
Communicative agents for" mind" exploration of
large language model society.Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 36:51991–52008.
Yitong Li, Zhe Gan, Yelong Shen, Jingjing Liu,
Yu Cheng, Yuexin Wu, Lawrence Carin, David Carl-
son, and Jianfeng Gao. 2019. Storygan: A sequential
--- PAGE 10 ---
conditional gan for story visualization. InProceed-
ings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition, pages 6329–6338.
Xinyao Liao, Xianfang Zeng, Liao Wang, Gang Yu,
Guosheng Lin, and Chi Zhang. 2025. Motionagent:
Fine-grained controllable video generation via mo-
tion field agent.arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.03207.
Chang Liu, Haoning Wu, Yujie Zhong, Xiaoyun Zhang,
Yanfeng Wang, and Weidi Xie. 2024. Intelligent
grimm-open-ended visual storytelling via latent dif-
fusion models. InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recog-
nition, pages 6190–6200.
Shilong Liu, Hao Cheng, Haotian Liu, Hao Zhang, Feng
Li, Tianhe Ren, Xueyan Zou, Jianwei Yang, Hang
Su, Jun Zhu, and 1 others. 2025. Llava-plus: Learn-
ing to use tools for creating multimodal agents. In
European Conference on Computer Vision, pages
126–142. Springer.
Luma. 2024. Dream machine.
MiniMax. 2024. Hailuoai.
The ModelScopeTeam. 2023. Modelscope: bring the
notion of model-as-a-service to life.
OpenAI. 2024. Creating video from text.
OpenAI. 2025. Gpt image - openai platform. Accessed:
2025-04-30.
Joon Sung Park, Joseph C O’Brien, Carrie J Cai, Mered-
ith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and Michael S Bern-
stein. 2023. Generative agents: Interactive sim-
ulacra of human behavior. arxiv.arXiv preprint
ArXiv:2304.03442.
Tanzila Rahman, Hsin-Ying Lee, Jian Ren, Sergey
Tulyakov, Shweta Mahajan, and Leonid Sigal. 2023.
Make-a-story: Visual memory conditioned consistent
story generation. InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recog-
nition, pages 2493–2502.
Aditya Ramesh, Mikhail Pavlov, Gabriel Goh, Scott
Gray, Chelsea V oss, Alec Radford, Mark Chen, and
Ilya Sutskever. 2021. Zero-shot text-to-image gener-
ation. InInternational conference on machine learn-
ing, pages 8821–8831. Pmlr.
Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz,
Patrick Esser, and Björn Ommer. 2022. High-
resolution image synthesis with latent diffusion mod-
els. InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference
on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages
10684–10695.
Nataniel Ruiz, Yuanzhen Li, Varun Jampani, Yael
Pritch, Michael Rubinstein, and Kfir Aberman. 2023.
Dreambooth: Fine tuning text-to-image diffusion
models for subject-driven generation. InProceed-
ings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition, pages 22500–22510.
Runway. 2024a. Gen-3.
Runway. 2024b. Gen-4.
Christoph Schuhmann, Romain Beaumont, Richard
Vencu, Cade Gordon, Ross Wightman, Mehdi Cherti,
Theo Coombes, Aarush Katta, Clayton Mullis,
Mitchell Wortsman, and 1 others. 2022. Laion-5b:
An open large-scale dataset for training next genera-
tion image-text models.Advances in neural informa-
tion processing systems, 35:25278–25294.
StabilityAI. 2024. Stable diffusion 3.5.
Hugo Touvron, Thibaut Lavril, Gautier Izacard, Xavier
Martinet, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Timothée Lacroix,
Baptiste Rozière, Naman Goyal, Eric Hambro, Faisal
Azhar, and 1 others. 2023a. Llama: Open and ef-
ficient foundation language models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2302.13971.
Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin Stone, Peter Al-
bert, Amjad Almahairi, Yasmine Babaei, Nikolay
Bashlykov, Soumya Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti
Bhosale, and 1 others. 2023b. Llama 2: Open foun-
dation and fine-tuned chat models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.09288.
Jiuniu Wang, Zehua Du, Yuyuan Zhao, Bo Yuan,
Kexiang Wang, Jian Liang, Yaxi Zhao, Yihen
Lu, Gengliang Li, Junlong Gao, and 1 others.
2024a. Aesopagent: Agent-driven evolutionary sys-
tem on story-to-video production.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2403.07952.
Yaohui Wang, Xinyuan Chen, Xin Ma, Shangchen Zhou,
Ziqi Huang, Yi Wang, Ceyuan Yang, Yinan He, Ji-
ashuo Yu, Peiqing Yang, and 1 others. 2024b. Lavie:
High-quality video generation with cascaded latent
diffusion models.IJCV.
Yaohui Wang, Xin Ma, Xinyuan Chen, Cunjian Chen,
Antitza Dantcheva, Bo Dai, and Yu Qiao. 2024c. Leo:
Generative latent image animator for human video
synthesis.International Journal of Computer Vision,
pages 1–13.
Zhenyu Wang, Aoxue Li, Zhenguo Li, and Xihui Liu.
2024d. Genartist: Multimodal llm as an agent for
unified image generation and editing.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2407.05600.
Zihao Wang, Shaofei Cai, Anji Liu, Yonggang Jin, Jin-
bing Hou, Bowei Zhang, Haowei Lin, Zhaofeng
He, Zilong Zheng, Yaodong Yang, and 1 others.
2024e. Jarvis-1: Open-world multi-task agents with
memory-augmented multimodal language models.
IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine
Intelligence.
Wenming Weng, Ruoyu Feng, Yanhui Wang, Qi Dai,
Chunyu Wang, Dacheng Yin, Zhiyuan Zhao, Kai
Qiu, Jianmin Bao, Yuhui Yuan, and 1 others. 2024.
Art-v: Auto-regressive text-to-video generation with
diffusion models. InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recog-
nition, pages 7395–7405.
--- PAGE 11 ---
Qingyun Wu, Gagan Bansal, Jieyu Zhang, Yiran Wu,
Beibin Li, Erkang Zhu, Li Jiang, Xiaoyun Zhang,
Shaokun Zhang, Jiale Liu, and 1 others. 2024. Au-
togen: Enabling next-gen llm applications via multi-
agent conversations. InFirst Conference on Lan-
guage Modeling.
Weijia Wu, Mingyu Liu, Zeyu Zhu, Xi Xia, Haoen
Feng, Wen Wang, Kevin Qinghong Lin, Chunhua
Shen, and Mike Zheng Shou. 2025a. Moviebench:
A hierarchical movie level dataset for long video
generation. InProceedings of the Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition Conference, pages 28984–
28994.
Weijia Wu, Zeyu Zhu, and Mike Zheng Shou. 2025b.
Automated movie generation via multi-agent cot plan-
ning.arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.07314.
Zhifei Xie, Daniel Tang, Dingwei Tan, Jacques Klein,
Tegawend F Bissyand, and Saad Ezzini. 2024.
Dreamfactory: Pioneering multi-scene long video
generation with a multi-agent framework.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2408.11788.
Jinbo Xing, Menghan Xia, Yong Zhang, Haoxin Chen,
Wangbo Yu, Hanyuan Liu, Gongye Liu, Xintao Wang,
Ying Shan, and Tien-Tsin Wong. 2025. Dynami-
crafter: Animating open-domain images with video
diffusion priors. InEuropean Conference on Com-
puter Vision, pages 399–417. Springer.
Tao Xu, Pengchuan Zhang, Qiuyuan Huang, Han Zhang,
Zhe Gan, Xiaolei Huang, and Xiaodong He. 2018.
Attngan: Fine-grained text to image generation with
attentional generative adversarial networks. InPro-
ceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition, pages 1316–1324.
Deshun Yang, Luhui Hu, Yu Tian, Zihao Li, Chris Kelly,
Bang Yang, Cindy Yang, and Yuexian Zou. 2024a.
Worldgpt: a sora-inspired video ai agent as rich world
models from text and image inputs.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2403.07944.
Hui Yang, Sifu Yue, and Yunzhong He. 2023a. Auto-gpt
for online decision making: Benchmarks and addi-
tional opinions.arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.02224.
Shuai Yang, Yuying Ge, Yang Li, Yukang Chen, Yixiao
Ge, Ying Shan, and Yingcong Chen. 2024b. Seed-
story: Multimodal long story generation with large
language model.arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.08683.
Zhengyuan Yang, Linjie Li, Jianfeng Wang, Kevin
Lin, Ehsan Azarnasab, Faisal Ahmed, Zicheng Liu,
Ce Liu, Michael Zeng, and Lijuan Wang. 2023b.
Mm-react: Prompting chatgpt for multimodal rea-
soning and action.Preprint, arXiv:2303.11381.
Da Yin, Faeze Brahman, Abhilasha Ravichander, Khy-
athi Chandu, Kai-Wei Chang, Yejin Choi, and
Bill Yuchen Lin. 2023a. Lumos: Learning agents
with unified data, modular design, and open-source
llms. InICLR 2024 Workshop on Large Language
Model (LLM) Agents.
Shengming Yin, Chenfei Wu, Huan Yang, Jianfeng
Wang, Xiaodong Wang, Minheng Ni, Zhengyuan
Yang, Linjie Li, Shuguang Liu, Fan Yang, and 1
others. 2023b. Nuwa-xl: Diffusion over diffusion
for extremely long video generation.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.12346.
Zhengqing Yuan, Yixin Liu, Yihan Cao, Weixiang
Sun, Haolong Jia, Ruoxi Chen, Zhaoxu Li, Bin Lin,
Li Yuan, Lifang He, and 1 others. 2024. Mora: En-
abling generalist video generation via a multi-agent
framework.arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.13248.
Han Zhang, Tao Xu, Hongsheng Li, Shaoting Zhang,
Xiaogang Wang, Xiaolei Huang, and Dimitris N
Metaxas. 2017. Stackgan: Text to photo-realistic
image synthesis with stacked generative adversarial
networks. InProceedings of the IEEE international
conference on computer vision, pages 5907–5915.
Shiwei Zhang, Jiayu Wang, Yingya Zhang, Kang Zhao,
Hangjie Yuan, Zhiwu Qin, Xiang Wang, Deli Zhao,
and Jingren Zhou. 2023. I2vgen-xl: High-quality
image-to-video synthesis via cascaded diffusion mod-
els.arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.04145.
Zhuosheng Zhang and Aston Zhang. 2024. You only
look at screens: Multimodal chain-of-action agents.
Preprint, arXiv:2309.11436.
Canyu Zhao, Mingyu Liu, Wen Wang, Weihua Chen,
Fan Wang, Hao Chen, Bo Zhang, and Chunhua
Shen. 2024. Moviedreamer: Hierarchical generation
for coherent long visual sequence.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2407.16655.
Boyuan Zheng, Boyu Gou, Jihyung Kil, Huan Sun, and
Yu Su. 2024. Gpt-4v (ision) is a generalist web agent,
if grounded.arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.01614.
Mingzhe Zheng, Yongqi Xu, Haojian Huang, Xuran
Ma, Yexin Liu, Wenjie Shu, Yatian Pang, Feilong
Tang, Qifeng Chen, Harry Yang, and 1 others. 2025.
Videogen-of-thought: Step-by-step generating multi-
shot video with minimal manual intervention.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2503.15138.
Cailin Zhuang, Ailin Huang, Wei Cheng, Jingwei Wu,
Yaoqi Hu, Jiaqi Liao, Hongyuan Wang, Xinyao Liao,
Weiwei Cai, Hengyuan Xu, and 1 others. 2025. Vis-
torybench: Comprehensive benchmark suite for story
visualization.arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.24862.
--- PAGE 12 ---
A More Related Works
A.1 Video Generation
Long video generation (He et al., 2022; Ge et al.,
2022; Wang et al., 2024c) aims to produce longer
videos than previous text-to-video (T2V) (Mod-
elScopeTeam, 2023; Wang et al., 2024b) and image-
to-video (I2V) (Girdhar et al., 2023; Xing et al.,
2025; Zhang et al., 2023) models. Auto-regressive
approaches (Weng et al., 2024; Henschel et al.,
2024) extend videos by conditioning on earlier
frames, yet often result in repetitive motions with
limited narrative development. Attempts to directly
integrate storytelling and video generation (Yin
et al., 2023b; Zheng et al., 2025) suffer from
poor visual quality and unstructured video com-
position, leading to subpar viewer experiences.
Meanwhile, commercial models have achieved no-
table success in both T2V (GenmoTeam, 2024;
Kong et al., 2024; OpenAI, 2024) and I2V genera-
tion (Google, 2024; Luma, 2024; MiniMax, 2024;
Ang and Baole, 2025), and some (KlingAI, 2024;
Runway, 2024a,b) support temporal extension.
A.2 Image Generation
Recent advances in image generation (Li et al.,
2019; Xu et al., 2018; Zhang et al., 2017; Ramesh
et al., 2021) have been propelled by deep learn-
ing techniques.To fulfill the task of visual sto-
rytelling, some works (Liu et al., 2024; Yang
et al., 2024b; Rahman et al., 2023) generate im-
age sequences from text and image-caption pairs.
To ensure subject consistency (Gal et al., 2022),
DreamBooth (Ruiz et al., 2023) adopts subject-
specific fine-tuning, while GPT-Image-1 (Ope-
nAI, 2025) introduces context-aware generation
for identity preservation. Recent models such
as NanoBanana (Google, 2025) and HunyuanIm-
age 3.0 (Cao et al., 2025) further advance high-
fidelity and instruction-following generation, offer-
ing stronger semantic control and compositional
reasoning capabilities. In this work, MA ViS lever-
ages off-the-shelf models to generate keyframes for
each shot, which serve as the basis for subsequent
video animation.
A.3 AI Agents
AI agents, empowered by large language mod-
els (Brown et al., 2020; Touvron et al., 2023a,b),
have shown broad applicability in reasoning, plan-
ning, web interaction, and visual generation.
General-purpose LLMs underpin agent frame-
works (Yang et al., 2023a; Yin et al., 2023a; Li et al.,
2023; Hong et al., 2023; Park et al., 2023), while
multimodal models (Achiam et al., 2023; Anil
et al., 2023) extend agent capabilities across modal-
ities (Yang et al., 2023b; Zhang and Zhang, 2024;
Zheng et al., 2024; Wang et al., 2024e; Liu et al.,
2025; Wang et al., 2024d; Hang et al., 2024; Liao
et al., 2025). In video generation, systems (Yang
et al., 2024a; Yuan et al., 2024; Wang et al., 2024a)
explore world modeling, multi-agent coordination,
and retrieval-augmented synthesis, yet often yield
static content with limited transitions. Hierarchi-
cal pipelines (Xie et al., 2024; Wu et al., 2025b)
introduce script-to-shot workflows but still rely on
laborious scripting and LoRA tuning.
B Explanation and Discuss about the
Script Writing Guideline
Due to space limitations in the main text, we pro-
vided only a brief overview of the Script Writing
Guideline. In this section, we offer a more detailed
explanation of the guideline and elaborate on the
rationale behind each design constraint.
In the Script Writing Guideline, "Scriptwrit-
ers should minimize transitions between tightly
connected spatial locations" refers to avoiding
consecutive shots set in spatially adjacent back-
grounds—for example, the first shot showing the
character entering a room by going through a door,
and the next shot showing the character from the
front inside the room. Such transitions can break
immersion due to background inconsistencies, such
as mismatched door appearances between shots.
The script writing guidelines are based on prac-
tical experience to improve compatibility with gen-
eration tools. E.g., "not to place the same char-
acter in consecutive shots" stems from the fact
that such sequences often involve multi-angle cuts
in the same setting. Given current model limita-
tions in maintaining background consistency, this
approach is not yet reliably achievable.
The constraints in the script writing guideline
are based on the following empirical observations:
• Avoid placing successive shots in the same back-
ground: We measured VBench background con-
sistency for adjacent shots sharing the same back-
ground and found it to be only 78.42, compared to
95.88 of single-shot. This justifies avoiding such
situations.
• Minimize transitions between tightly connected
spatial locations: For pairs of shots with strong spa-
--- PAGE 13 ---
Methods FID↓Inception↑CLIP↑
DreamFactory 7.03† 169.71† 30.92†
MA ViS - 12.81 34.22
Table 7: Compare with DreamFactory (Xie et al., 2024).
† denotes the reported score in the paper of the baseline
method.
Methods CLIP↑Inception↑AS↑CLIP-sim↑
MovieDreamer 19.52† 8.64† 6.05† 0.70†
MA ViS 34.22 12.81 7.25 0.71
Table 8: Compare with MovieDreamer (Zhao et al.,
2024). † denotes the reported score in the paper of the
baseline method. "AS" denotes Aesthetic Score used
in (Schuhmann et al., 2022).
tial connections, we used GPT to assess whether
their backgrounds were spatially related as de-
scribed in the script. Only 26 out of 100 pairs were
judged to be consistent, indicating such transitions
should be avoided.
• Avoid complex actions within a single shot:
Shots with complex actions achieved a VBench
overall consistency of 23.25, compared to 27.76
for simple actions, suggesting simpler actions im-
prove generation reliability.
• Avoid fine-grained visual elements within a sin-
gle shot: Shots containing fine-grained visual ele-
ments scored 22.68 in VBench overall consistency,
while those without such elements scored 27.76.
Thus, they should be avoided.
• Align style with user’s quest: Using GPT to judge
alignment with user instructions, only 82 out of
100 scripts were fully aligned without constraints,
compared to 100 with constraints in place.
• Ensure script structural completeness: A com-
plete structure is essential for enabling subsequent
stages of the generation pipeline.
For more details, refer to the Script Writing
Guideline, please refer to the system messages.
To evaluate the performance of MA ViS, we com-
pared it with three open-sourced long video genera-
tion frameworks. Further experimental details and
results are provided in the Appendix.
C Implementation Details
All agents in our framework are implemented us-
ing AutoGen (Wu et al., 2024) and powered by
GPT-4o (Achiam et al., 2023). The T2I model pool
comprises FLUX.1 (BlackForestLabs, 2023), Sta-
ble Diffusion 3.5 (Rombach et al., 2022), and GPT-
Image (OpenAI, 2025), while the I2V model pool
includes Veo2 (Google, 2024), Gen-3 (Runway,
2024a), Gen-4 (Runway, 2024b), LUMA (Luma,
Methods Aesthetic↑Image Quality↑Consistency (avg.)↑P. Consistency↑
LCT 60.79† 67.44† 95.65† 30.14†
MA ViS 63.17 72.91 95.92 34.22
Table 9: Compare with LCT (Guo et al., 2025). † de-
notes the reported score in the paper of the baseline
method. “Consistency (avg.)” represents the average
score of subject and background consistency. "P. Con-
sistency" denotes Prompt Consistency.
2024), HunyuanVideo-I2V (Kong et al., 2024),
and Wan2.1 (Ang and Baole, 2025). We use
MUDI (Jang et al., 2024) for LoRA training and
Hailuo (MiniMax, 2024) for the T2A generation.
The maximum number of 3E iterations is set to 4
for script writing, shot designing, and voice design-
ing; 2 for the T2I process; 1 for the I2V process;
and 5 for subtitle refining. As the first work tar-
geting the efficient translation of single lines of
ideas to long-sequence video storytelling, no suit-
able benchmark dataset exists. Therefore, we con-
structed a test set of 20 user prompts, each targeting
a one-minute video for evaluation.
To standardize intermediate outputs for down-
stream processes, we introduced a Script Consol-
idator agent in the Script Writing stage. This agent
formats the script after each 3E iteration to ensure
consistency. In both the T2I and I2V processes,
due to limitations on the number of images that
can be processed simultaneously, the T2I Evaluator
and I2V Evaluator adopt a batched evaluation strat-
egy. Following this, T2I Selector and I2V Selector
agents are employed to select the best candidates
based on all evaluation results. Specifically, the
I2V Evaluator samples 8 evenly sampled frames
from each video candidate for evaluation.
The T2I process in the Shot Designing stage mir-
rors that of Character Modeling, with the difference
being that the T2I model pool in the Shot Design-
ing stage incorporates the LoRA models trained
during Character Modeling. We use MUDI (Jang
et al., 2024) for LoRA training, which supports
multi-subject generation, allowing a single LoRA
to serve an entire script.
Given that different models in the I2V model
pool require reference images at different resolu-
tions, keyframes are center-cropped and resized
before I2V execution according to model-specific
requirements. To ensure consistency, all generated
videos are center-cropped and resized to 1280×720
resolution.
The T2I model pool includes the open-source
models FLUX (BlackForestLabs, 2023) and Sta-
--- PAGE 14 ---
Metric Question
Narrative Expressiveness Which video performed best overall in terms of narrative engagement, story coherence, and viewing experience?
Visual Quality Which video was the most visually expressive in terms of emotion, atmosphere, and cinematic feel?
User Prompt Alignment Which video best aligns with the original user prompt (e.g., character setup, plot elements, or keywords)?
Character Consistency Which video had the most consistent character appearances across scenes? (clothing, hairstyle, facial features)
Character Naturalness Which video had the most natural and correct character generation? Consider anatomical realism, physical motion plausibility,
and the absence of duplicate or mistakenly generated characters.
Background Consistency Which video had the most consistent and logically coherent background style across shots?
Background Realism Which video had the most natural background elements and physically plausible movements?
Table 10: Metrics and Questions for User Study.
Method Keyframe Generation Video Animation
CLIP↑Inception↑ T. Flick.↑M. Smooth.↑Sub. Cons.↑Bg. Cons.↑Aesthetic↑I. Quality↑
VGoT (Zheng et al., 2025) 22.32 8.41 99.00 99.2898.98 98.76 79.9564.62
Mora (Yuan et al., 2024) 34.02 12.70 97.25 99.21 94.58 95.01 64.41 71.39
MovieAgent (Wu et al., 2025b) 31.64 10.69 97.05 99.18 93.44 94.62 63.38 91.25
MA ViS (ours) 34.15 12.79 99.08 99.5295.54 96.10 64.0572.68
Table 11: Compare with baselines on MovieBench and ViStoryBench.
ble Diffusion 3.5 (StabilityAI, 2024), as well as
the API-based GPT-Image (OpenAI, 2025). The
I2V model pool comprises open-source models
Hunyuan (Kong et al., 2024) and Wan2.1 (Ang
and Baole, 2025), along with API-based models
Gen3 (Runway, 2024a), Gen4 (Runway, 2024b),
LUMA (Luma, 2024), and Veo2 (Google, 2024).
For T2A, we use the Minimax Hailuo API (Mini-
Max, 2024). All experiments were conducted on
one NVIDIA V100 GPUs.
More samples generated by MA ViS framework
are shown in Figure. 6 and Figure. 7.
C.1 Metrics
we constructed a test set of 20 user prompts,
each targeting a one-minute video for evalua-
tion. We employ CLIP and Inception Score to
evaluate prompt consistency and generation qual-
ity in the keyframe generation stage, and use
VBench (Huang et al., 2024) to assess video an-
imation performance. Additionally, a user study
is conducted to assess real user preferences and
validate the practical effectiveness of MA ViS and
baselines. For all evaluation metrics, higher values
indicate better performance.
C.2 Baselines
We compare MA ViS with three long video gener-
ation baselines: VGoT, Mora, and MovieAgent.
Among them, Mora and MovieAgent adopt a mod-
ular design and are equipped with the same im-
age and video generation models as MA ViS, and
are also powered by GPT-4o. Since Mora and
MovieAgent do not support script generation, we
provide them with scripts formed by our script writ-
ing stge. For MovieAgent, which requires manual
training of LoRA models, we generate character im-
ages based on the provided scripts and train LoRA
models for each script.
D Compare with More Baselines
In our experiments, we conducted direct com-
parisons with three open-source baselines:
VGoT (Zheng et al., 2025), Mora (Yuan et al.,
2024), and MovieAgent (Wu et al., 2025b).
Subsequently, we compared our results with
the reported performances of non-open-source
baselines.
We first compare our method with DreamFac-
tory (Xie et al., 2024). Given the scarcity of real
videos in long-sequence video storytelling with
assistive generation, computing the FID metric is
not feasible. As shown in Table 7, MA ViS achieves
higher scores across most metrics; however, there is
a substantial gap in Inception Score. We adopted a
widely used implementation of the Inception Score,
which may differ from the version used by Dream-
Factory, potentially leading to differences in score
range. Since the baseline is not open-sourced, we
are unable to verify the exact cause of this discrep-
ancy.
Next, we compare our method with
MovieDreamer (Zhao et al., 2024). As shown in
Table 8, MA ViS outperforms this baseline across
all evaluation metrics.
Subsequently, we compare our method with
LCT (Guo et al., 2025), using evaluation metrics
sourced entirely from VBench. As shown in Ta-
ble 9, MA ViS consistently outperforms this base-
line across all metrics.
E User Study
In the User Study, participants were asked to vote
for the best video in each group based on seven eval-
uation criteria. As listed in Table 10, the criteria
include: Narrative Expressiveness, Visual Quality,
--- PAGE 15 ---
I Narrative Visual User Align. C.Rate Time(Second)
0 12.58 18.44 19.56 74.00 9.80
1 25.32 22.85 24.40 86.00 20.90
2 32.54 24.82 26.49 94.50 28.24
3 33.48 25.60 26.52 98.50 36.13
4 34.00 26.00 26.67 100.00 41.58
Table 12: Quality-Efficiency Analysis on scriptwriting.
I CLIP Inception Natural. C.Rate Time(Second)
0 31.25 10.54 72.00 68.00 175.19
1 32.25 11.30 84.00 81.00 381.32
2 34.22 12.81 98.00 92.50 557.47
3 34.26 12.78 98.50 96.00 602.06
Table 13: Quality-Efficiency Analysis on Keyframe
Generation.
User Prompt Alignment, Character Consistency,
Character Naturalness, Background Consistency,
and Background Realism. Prior to voting, detailed
guidelines for each metric were provided to ensure
consistency and reliability in evaluation. Some
screenshots of the user study HTML interface is
shown in Figures 3, 4, and 5.
F Evaluation on the Existing Dataset
We are establishing an efficient agentic system
from users’ single line of ideas to final pixels
plus other multimodalities. However, existing long
video benchmarks, MovieBench (Wu et al., 2025a)
and ViStoryBench (Zhuang et al., 2025), focus only
on benchmarking T2I and I2V models’, not on the
entire agentic system. In particular, they ignore the
script generation and scripts’ compatibility with
existing T2I and I2V models’ capabilities.
Nevertheless, we sampled three examples (each
consisting of 10 shots) from both MovieBench and
ViStoryBench. As shown in Table 11, MA ViS con-
sistently outperforms the compared methods.
G Quality-Efficiency Analysis
In the stages where the 3E principle is applied,
we evaluated the impact of the maximum iteration
number (I) on generation quality and time using
the same metrics as in our paper.It’s worth noting
that C. Rate refers to Compliance Rate, defined as
the proportion of outputs that fully adhere to their
respective guidelines. It is used to measure the
success rate of each stage’s generation.
For script writing, as shown in Tabel 12, the
performance is already satisfactory at I= 2 . In-
creasing I further can improve generation quality
with minimal impact on overall efficiency.
For keyframe generation, as shown in Tabel 13,
the performance is already satisfactory at I= 2 .
I CLIP Inception Natural. Sub. Cons. Dyn. Deg. C.Rate Time(Minute)
0 32.05 11.22 60.00 93.00 44.58 72.50 61.17
1 34.53 13.22 92.50 95.72 35.62 86.00 124.21
2 34.62 13.31 95.00 95.51 35.68 94.00 176.77
3 34.35 13.18 96.50 95.46 35.54 98.00 215.38
Table 14: Quality-Efficiency Analysis on Video Anima-
tion.
Shot Designing V oice Designing Subtitle Refining
I C.Rate Time(Second) C.Rate Time(Second) C.Rate Time(Second)
0 84.50 24.34 92.00 5.62 56.50 1.58
1 89.00 73.49 95.00 13.48 86.00 2.83
2 94.00 122.352 98.50 26.19 92.50 3.95
3 97.00 161.21 97.00 161.21 98.00 4.36
4 98.50 195.86 99.00 29.84 99.50 4.84
5 100.00 231.60 100.00 31.68 100.00 4.89
Table 15: Quality-Efficiency Analysis on shot designing,
voice designing, and subtitle refining.
Increasing I further can enhance generation quality,
with only a slight impact on overall efficiency.
For video animation, as shown in Tabel 14, the
performance is already satisfactory atI= 2 . While
increasing I can further improve quality, it has a
significant impact on overall efficiency. Therefore,
we set I= 1 for video animation in our experi-
ments.
For shot designing, voice designing, and subtitle
refining, as shown in Tabel 15, increasing I im-
proves generation quality with minimal impact on
overall efficiency. However, since errors in these
stages can critically affect the entire generation
process, we set I= 5 for these tasks in our experi-
ments.
Additionally, since iterations may terminate be-
fore reaching the maximum iteration number, the
generation time does not scale linearly withI.
--- PAGE 16 ---
Figure 3: Screenshot of the user study HTML interface with instructions and generated video candidates.
Figure 4: Screenshot of the user study HTML interface with seven evaluation questions.
--- PAGE 17 ---
Figure 5: Screenshot of the user study HTML interface with generated video candidates and seven evaluation
questions.
--- PAGE 18 ---
I want a drama-themed 
video. It tells a story 
about survival, following 
an alien linguist in a 
medieval kingdom. The 
length of the final video 
should be about 1 
minute.
User
User
I want a thriller-themed 
video. It tells a story 
about hope, following a 
street artist in an 
underwater city. The 
length of the final video 
should be about 1 
minute.
User
User
I want a sci-fi-themed 
video. It tells a story 
about love, following a 
creature of myth in a 
magical academy. The 
length of the final video 
should be about 1 
minute.
User
User
I want a mystery-themed 
video. It tells a story of  
legacy, following an 
alien linguist in a 
forgotten moon colony. 
The length of the final 
video should be about 1 
minute.
User
User
I want a drama-themed 
video. It tells a story 
about survival, following 
an alien linguist in a 
medieval kingdom. The 
length of the final video 
should be about 1 
minute.
User
I want a thriller-themed 
video. It tells a story 
about hope, following a 
street artist in an 
underwater city. The 
length of the final video 
should be about 1 
minute.
User
I want a sci-fi-themed 
video. It tells a story 
about love, following a 
creature of myth in a 
magical academy. The 
length of the final video 
should be about 1 
minute.
User
I want a mystery-themed 
video. It tells a story of  
legacy, following an 
alien linguist in a 
forgotten moon colony. 
The length of the final 
video should be about 1 
minute.
User
Figure 6: More samples generated by MA ViS framework.
--- PAGE 19 ---
I want a sci-fi-themed 
video. It tells a story 
about A astronaut 
encountering a high-
dimensionial being. The 
length of the final video 
should be about 1 
minute.
User
User
I want a Cthulhu-style 
video, depicting an 
explorer who discovers 
signs of the impending 
apocalypse. The length 
of the final video should 
be about 1 minute.
User
User
I want a sci-fi-themed 
video. It tells a story 
about rebirth, following 
a cursed prince in a 
haunted forest. The 
length of the final video 
should be about 1 
minute.
User
User
I want a sci-fi-themed 
video. It tells a story 
about sacrifice, 
following a young 
orphan in a war-torn 
future Earth. The length 
of the final video should 
be about 1 minute.
User
User
I want a sci-fi-themed 
video. It tells a story 
about A astronaut 
encountering a high-
dimensionial being. The 
length of the final video 
should be about 1 
minute.
User
I want a Cthulhu-style 
video, depicting an 
explorer who discovers 
signs of the impending 
apocalypse. The length 
of the final video should 
be about 1 minute.
User
I want a sci-fi-themed 
video. It tells a story 
about rebirth, following 
a cursed prince in a 
haunted forest. The 
length of the final video 
should be about 1 
minute.
User
I want a sci-fi-themed 
video. It tells a story 
about sacrifice, 
following a young 
orphan in a war-torn 
future Earth. The length 
of the final video should 
be about 1 minute.
User
Figure 7: More samples generated by MA ViS framework.
